# IQNets

**Freedom has a price.**

If we wish to live in freedom, we must pay the price for freedom.

The price for freedom includes but is not limited to the consequences of living in or with,
freedom.

Fail to pay the price freedom demands, even by way of acquiescense, and we live in slavery,
albeit usually well fed sheeple in glittery gilt cages.

Choose comfort and "safety", and we slide down the "slippery slope of supposed safety", into
abject and despotic slavery, and end up with neither freedom, nor safety.

A free people are willing to pay the price which freedom demands.  All others, are slaves.

Intellectually honest humans who uphold our fundamental human rights, support those who live in
pursuance of our human rights.

This project, IQNets, begins in humble honour of, and in deep gratitude to
**James Dalton Bell** (Jim Bell, crypto anarchist) an upholder of our fundamental human rights.

Jim's principled stand (which he holds to this day), having rejected a 2 year "plea deal" to
plead guilty to bogus charges (which plea would have whitewashed the USA prosecutor's evil),
cost Jim 13 years of his life in a USA federal prison, by the hand of various corrupt USA
federal prosecutors and associated humans, who further spent years attempting to run an appeal
"for" Jim (behind his back, without telling him) to try to eliminate the possibility that Jim
could ever appeal his own conviction.

---

IQNets shall be a privacy enhancing "encrypted" network of networks or "mesh net" which is
intended to overcome certain of the specific, known and fundamental failings of the Tor ("The
Onion Router") network - primarily the following Tor network problems:

 1. **Problem**: Centralised directory authorities with "special status".
 2. **Problem**: Complete avoidance of chaff fill anonymisation protocols.
 3. **Problem**: TCP base protocol, facilitating Tor network connection tracking especially at
    entry to the Tor network, and which also mandates the unavoidable TCP bandwidth and latency
    overheads, for all non connection oriented protocols which some people try to run on the Tor
    network.

These problems with Tor have been known since Tor's inception and assiduously avoided being
fixed by the USA's Pentagon- and CIA- funded Tor project.

Further, the Tor project's directory authorities included one relatively independent directory
authority run by Jacob Applebaum who refused to hand over his authority in the Tor project, and
who due to his stand, was thereafter targetted by other specific humans both within and without
the Tor project in a vicious public "online lynch" mob campaign against him; Applebaum has since
had his directory authority "reassigned" to a more compliant individual.

So, use Tor at your own risk assessment.


## Technical Basics

IQNets by design are/is founded on the following technical computer networking principles:

 - packet switched (initially UDP)
 - chaff filled (by peer negotiation per end user configuration) - this is network bandwidth and
   latency normalization, but also includes packet size normalization
 - end-user node routed (no directory authorities)
 - friend to friend for primary trust, but allowing "unknown" nodes per config
 - privacy enhancing (every claim of guaranteed "anonymity" is asking end users to deceive
   themselves and thereby put themselves at potentially great personal risk)
 - communications networks
 - for all types of digital communications - tweets to torrents, web browsing to phone calls

The design of IQNets begins late October 2019.

IQNets shall be ready when it's ready, and not before.

Time frame for even a "techy admins only prototype" is "Not Sure" (with thanks to Idiocracy the
movie).

(IQNets is Renamed from "Covfefe Opportunistic VPN For Encrypted F2F Exchange" - Covfefe shall
 be my trigger memeing chat client (running on IQNets) instead :)


## Status

As at October 2019: design and consideration, intent to code Proof of Concept once the basic
concepts are settled; discussion ongoing at the cpunks.org "Cypherpunks" email mailing list and
with the analyses and notes fed into text files located under `doc/` .


## Miscellania

Language: initial proof of concept: Java

License: GPL3

See [various notes files under doc/](doc/).

